Add regular expression syntax to query DSL (#9997)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _query-dsl/regex-syntax.md

- `+` – Matches one or more of the preceding characters. **Example**: `go+` matches `g` followed by one or more `o`s (`go`, `goo`, `gooo`, and so on).

- `*` – Matches zero or more of the preceding characters. **Example**: `lo*se` matches `l` followed by zero or more `o`s and then `se` (`lse`, `lose`, `loose`, `loooose`, and so on).

- `{min,max}` – Matches a specific range of repetitions. If `max` is omitted, there is no upper limit on the number of characters matched. **Example**: `x{3}` matches exactly 3 `x`s (`xxx`); `x{2,4}` matches from 2 to 4 `x`s (`xx`, `xxx`, or `xxxx`); `x{3,}` matches 3 or more `x`s (`xxx`, `xxxx`, `xxxxx`, and so on).

- `|` – Acts as a logical `OR`. **Example**: `apple|orange` matches `apple` or `orange`.

- `( )` – Groups characters into a subpattern. **Example**: `ab(cd)?` matches `ab` and `abcd`.

- `[ ]` – Matches one character from a set or range. **Example**: `[aeiou]` matches any vowel.
    - `-` – When provided within the brackets, indicates a range unless escaped or is the first character within the brackets. **Example**: `[a-z]` matches any lowercase letter; `[-az]` matches `-`, `a`, or `z`; `[a\\-z]` matches `a`, `-`, or `z`.

>     - `^` – When provided within the brackets, acts a logical `NOT`, negating a range of characters or any character in the set. **Example**: `[^az]` matches any character except `a` or `z`; `[^a-z]` matches any character except lowercase letters, `[^-az]` matches any character except `-`, `a`, and `z`; `[^a\\-z]` matches any character except `a`, `-`, and `z`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `^` – When provided within the brackets, acts a logical `NOT`, negating a range of characters or any character in the set. **Example**: `[^az]` matches any character except `a` or `z`; `[^a-z]` matches any character except lowercase letters; `[^-az]` matches any character except `-`, `a`, and `z`; `[^a\\-z]` matches any character except `a`, `-`, and `z`.
```

## Optional operators

You can enable additional regex operators using the `flags` parameter. Separate multiple flags with `|`.

The following are the available flags:

- `ALL` (default) – Enables all optional operators.

{% comment %}
<!-- COMPLEMENT is deprecated and doesn't work. Leaving it here until https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/issues/18397 is resolved. -->
{% endcomment %}

- `COMPLEMENT` – Enables `~`, which negates the shortest following expression. **Example**: `d~ef` matches `dgf`, `dxf`, but not `def`.

- `INTERSECTION` – Enables `&` as an `AND` logical operator. **Example**: `ab.+&.+cd` matches strings containing `ab` at the beginning and `cd` at the end.

- `INTERVAL` – Enables `<min-max>` syntax to match numeric ranges. **Example**: `id<10-12>` matches `id10`, `id11`, and `id12`.

- `ANYSTRING` – Enables `@` to match any string. You can combine this with `~` and `&` for exclusions. **Example**: `@&.*error.*&.*[0-9]{3}.*` matches strings containing both the word "error" and a sequence of three digits.

## Unsupported features

> Lucene’s engine does not support the following commonly used regex anchors:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lucene's engine does not support the following commonly used regex anchors:
```

> - `^` – start of line

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `^` – Start of line
```

> - `$` – end of line

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `$` – End of line
```

Instead, your pattern must match the entire string to produce a match.

## Example

To try regular expressions, index the following documents into the `logs` index:

```json
PUT /logs/_doc/1
{
  "message": "error404"
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

```json
PUT /logs/_doc/2
{
  "message": "error500"
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

```json
PUT /logs/_doc/3
{
  "message": "error1a"
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Example: Basic query containing regular expressions

> The following `regexp` query returns documents in which the entire value of the `message` field matches the pattern "error" followed by one or more digits. It does not match if the value only contains that pattern as a substring:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following `regexp` query returns documents in which the entire value of the `message` field matches the pattern "error" followed by one or more digits. Documents do not match if the value only contains the pattern as a substring:
```

> 

Reviewer: Line 135: Confirm that my changes retain the intended meaning.

        "_source": {
          "message": "error500"
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

### Example: Using optional operators

The following query matches documents in which the `message` field exactly matches a string that starts with "error" followed by a number from 400 to 500, inclusive. The `INTERVAL` flag enables the use of `<min-max>` syntax for numeric ranges:

```json
GET /logs/_search
{
  "query": {
    "regexp": {
      "message": {
        "value": "error<400-500>",
        "flags": "INTERVAL"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

This query matches `error404` and `error500`:

```json
{
  "took": 22,
  "timed_out": false,
  "_shards": {
    "total": 1,
    "successful": 1,
    "skipped": 0,
    "failed": 0
  },
  "hits": {
    "total": {
      "value": 2,
      "relation": "eq"
    },
    "max_score": 1,
    "hits": [
      {
        "_index": "logs",
        "_id": "1",
        "_score": 1,
        "_source": {
          "message": "error404"
        }
      },
      {
        "_index": "logs",
        "_id": "2",
        "_score": 1,
        "_source": {
          "message": "error500"
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

### Example: Using ANYSTRING

> When the `ANYSTRING` flag is enabled, the `@` operator matches an entire string. This is useful when combined with intersection (`&`), because it allows you to construct queries that match full strings under specific conditions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the `ANYSTRING` flag is enabled, the `@` operator matches an entire string. This is useful when combined with intersection (`&`) because it allows you to construct queries that match full strings under specific conditions.
```
